What happens when your type 'google.com' in browser url then click enter.

This action will involve different intergatred technologies.

1. DNS request
Finding google IP address
When you type 'google.com' and press Enter, the browser check it DNS cache first. If the IP address is not cached, it sends a DNS query to a DNS server to resolve domain name into an IP address. This process is called DNS record lookup. If the IP address is found it is returned to the browser.
For 'google.com' the returned IP address is '8.8.8.8' which is the IP address of Google's server.
The importance of DNS is to translate human-readable domain names into IP addresses.


2. TCP/IP
Establish a connection in a network
TCP/IP are set of network protocols which facilitate efficient and error free transmission of data in a network. The browser establishes a TCP connection to Google's server using the resolved IP address 
This process involves three-way handshake for reliable connection.

3. Firewall
Inspect traffic if it's security policy compliant.
Firewall is network security device or software that filters incoming and outgoing network traffic based on security policies.
When you send a send a request to google it first goes through a firewall which acts a safe guard, it checks if your request is safe so as to enable connection. Incase some malicious attacks is detected the request is blocked to keep Google's infrastructure safe. 

4. HTTPS/SSL
Establish encrption of information.
HTTPS/SSL gives the user the assurance that the website they will be accessing is secure and private. The browser and google's server initiate an SSL.TLS handshake to establish a secure, encrypted connection.
This ensure data privacy and integrity during transmission.

5. Load balancer
Distribute the load.
A website like google handle many request every minute. To manage all these request in the required time, a load balancer distributes incoming traffic accross multiple servers managed by google to ensure no single server is not overwhelmed and to optimize resource use, hence faster repsonse.

6. Web server
Handling the HTTPS request.
When you request reaches a specific Google's web servers, it handle incomming http requests and serves static content (HTML, CSS, JS) to the browser.

7. Application Server
Handle a business logic for.
For dynamic content a web server forwards your request to an application server,  where the business logic is processed and sends appropiate feedback to the web server.


8. Database
Retrieve data or store data.
The application server will send a query to Google's database server to retrieve or update relevant information as needed and sent the results to the application server.




